---
layout: post
title:  "Week 46: Sprint 2"
date:   2022-11-16 00:00:00 +0200
published: true
---

## Block programming
Block programming has worked together to make sure that The block server and the blockly site can 
communicate together. We have also made sure that two of the groups' computers can be used to host
the block programming. This was done in preparation for the open house we will be hosting together
with Luleå Makerspace on the 19:th.

### Block server
Aside from syncing with the blockly group, we have mostly done some small house cleaning during this 
sprint. We have started using Pylint, the common linter we decided to use. We have also started work
on a docker file, which should allow us to more easily host the program when we are done. 

A composite function, in the form of a dance, has been started. This function, when called via a block,
should make Pepper dance. We are thinking that it will probably start music as well. After some other 
composite functions, the only thing we have left to implement is a "joystick" mode, where Pepper can be
controlled with, for example, the WASD buttons. This was requested by Peter Parnes, as a way to more 
easily control Pepper. 

### Blockly


## Web interaction

## Rock-paper-scissors

This sprint we added face tracking with Pepper, text-to-speech interactions that instructs the player 
what is happening in the game and also functionality to declare the winner from an integer. We have also 
started looking into packaging the system so that the block programming group could create a block for our
group. In addition, we have also started working on server communication with the image recognition group 
and started discuss how that communication should be done. 

In preperation for the open house event we also have a minimal solution that could work if we are not 
able to establish connections and receive results from the image recognition group.

Next sprint we will continue working with the server communications and the packaging of the system. 

## Image recognition
